README.md, before:

# LexAgent — Legal Research AI Agent

A legal research AI agent that takes a research goal, breaks it into actionable tasks, executes them using real web search tools, and produces a structured markdown report.

## Features

- **Agent Loop** — Built manually (no LangChain, LangGraph, AutoGen, or CrewAI)
- **Context Compression** — Raw search results are never stored; only 2–3 sentence summaries are retained
- **Langfuse Observability** — Full tracing of every LLM call with token usage and latency
- **Persistent Sessions** — Resume research sessions from past runs
- **Markdown Reports** — Professional legal research reports saved to disk
- **Dual Frontends** — Streamlit (Python) or React (Vite + TypeScript)

---

## Prerequisites

- Python 3.11+
- [UV](https://docs.astral.sh/uv/) package manager
- Node.js 18+ (for React frontend only)
- API keys: OpenAI, Tavily, Langfuse (optional for tracing)

---

## Quick Start

### 1. Clone and install

```bash
git clone <repo>
cd lexagent
uv sync
```

### 2. Configure environment

```bash
cp .env.example .env
```

Edit `.env` with your API keys:

```
OPENAI_API_KEY=sk-...
TAVILY_API_KEY=tvly-...
LANGFUSE_SECRET_KEY=sk-lf-...   # Optional
LANGFUSE_PUBLIC_KEY=pk-lf-...  # Optional
LEXAGENT_API_URL=http://localhost:8000
OPENAI_MODEL=gpt-4o-mini
```

### 3. Initialize Langfuse prompts (required)

```bash
uv run python app/init_langfuse_prompts.py
```

### 4. Run the application

**Terminal 1 — Backend**

```bash
make backend
# or: uv run uvicorn app.main:app --reload --port 8000
```

**Terminal 2 — Frontend (choose one)**

```bash
# Option A: Streamlit
make frontend
# UI: http://localhost:8501

# Option B: React
make react
# UI: http://localhost:5173
```

---

## How the Agent Loop Works

1. **Goal Input** — User submits a legal research goal via the UI
2. **Planning** — LLM decomposes the goal into 3–6 specific research tasks
3. **Execution** — For each task:
   - Refine the search query using task context + prior research
   - Execute web search via Tavily API
   - Compress raw results into a 2–3 sentence summary (never stored)
   - Reflect on findings and update context notes
   - Mark task as done
4. **Report** — Synthesize a markdown report from accumulated context
5. **Persistence** — Session state saved as JSON; users can resume anytime

**Key insight:** `context_notes` stores only compressed summaries, never raw search text. This keeps the context window flat regardless of task count.

---

## Architecture

```
lexagent/
├── app/
│   ├── agent.py              # LLM wrapper + agent loop
│   ├── main.py               # FastAPI application
│   ├── models.py             # Pydantic models
│   ├── security.py           # Input validation, prompt injection guardrails
│   ├── storage.py            # JSON persistence
│   ├── tools.py              # Tavily search + report writer
│   └── init_langfuse_prompts.py
├── frontend/
│   └── ui.py                 # Streamlit dashboard
├── frontend-react/            # React + Vite + TypeScript
├── docs/                      # Project documentation
├── data/                      # Session JSON (runtime)
├── reports/                   # Markdown reports (runtime)
├── transcript.md             # Example session transcript
├── Makefile                  # Development commands
└── pyproject.toml
```

---

## API Endpoints

| Method | Endpoint | Description |
|--------|----------|-------------|
| GET | `/health` | Health check |
| POST | `/agent/start` | Create session, generate plan |
| GET | `/agent/{id}` | Get session state |
| GET | `/agent/{id}/report` | Get report markdown |
| POST | `/agent/{id}/execute` | Execute next task |
| GET | `/sessions` | List all sessions |
| DELETE | `/agent/{id}` | Delete session |

---

## Development

### Commands

```bash
make help          # List all commands
make test          # Python backend tests
make react-test    # React frontend tests
make test-all      # All tests
make lint          # Ruff linter
make lint-fix      # Auto-fix lint issues
make react-build   # Build React for production
make clean         # Remove sessions and reports
```

### Linting

```bash
uv run ruff check app/ frontend/
uv run ruff check --fix app/ frontend/
```

---

## Documentation

| Document | Description |
|----------|-------------|
| [docs/TESTING.md](docs/TESTING.md) | Testing guide (Python + React) |
| [docs/LANGFUSE_SETUP.md](docs/LANGFUSE_SETUP.md) | Langfuse prompt management |
| [docs/SECURITY.md](docs/SECURITY.md) | Security guardrails |
| [docs/BEST_PRACTICES.md](docs/BEST_PRACTICES.md) | Development best practices |
| [docs/UPDATES.md](docs/UPDATES.md) | Recent improvements |
| [transcript.md](transcript.md) | Example session transcript |
| [frontend-react/README.md](frontend-react/README.md) | React frontend details |

---

## Evaluation Scenarios

1. **GDPR AI Compliance** — Report covers Article 5, 25, 32 with citations
2. **EU AI Act Risk Classification** — High-risk classification, conformity assessment
3. **German Legal Ethics (BRAO)** — §43e BRAO, data protection obligations
4. **German vs EU Data Protection** — BDSG §22, §26 vs GDPR comparison
5. **AI-Generated Legal Documents** — Landmark cases with implications

---

## Trade-offs

- **No RAG** — Tavily returns current legal content; static docs become outdated
- **No agent framework** — Full control over prompts and context
- **JSON storage** — Human-readable, no DB setup
- **Streamlit + React** — Streamlit for rapid iteration; React for production UI

---

## License

MIT

Commit message:

Remove conflicting compiled .js files from lib directory
The api.js and utils.js files were conflicting with api.ts and utils.ts,
causing Vite build to fail with module resolution errors. Removed old
compiled JavaScript files to use TypeScript source files only.

README.md, after:

# LexAgent — Legal Research AI Agent

A legal research AI agent that takes a research goal, breaks it into actionable tasks, executes them using real web search tools, and produces a structured markdown report.

## Features

- **Agent Loop** — Built manually (no LangChain, LangGraph, AutoGen, or CrewAI)
- **Context Compression** — Raw search results are never stored; only 2–3 sentence summaries are retained
- **Langfuse Observability** — Full tracing of every LLM call with token usage and latency
- **Persistent Sessions** — Resume research sessions from past runs
- **Markdown Reports** — Professional legal research reports saved to disk
- **Dual Frontends** — Streamlit (Python) or React (Vite + TypeScript)

---

## Prerequisites

- Python 3.11+
- [UV](https://docs.astral.sh/uv/) package manager
- Node.js 18+ (for React frontend only)
- API keys: OpenAI, Tavily, Langfuse (optional for tracing)

---

## Quick Start

### 1. Clone and install

```bash
git clone <repo>
cd lexagent
uv sync
```

### 2. Configure environment

```bash
cp .env.example .env
```

Edit `.env` with your API keys:

```
OPENAI_API_KEY=sk-...
TAVILY_API_KEY=tvly-...
LANGFUSE_SECRET_KEY=sk-lf-...   # Optional
LANGFUSE_PUBLIC_KEY=pk-lf-...  # Optional
LEXAGENT_API_URL=http://localhost:8000
OPENAI_MODEL=gpt-4o-mini
```

### 3. Initialize Langfuse prompts (required)

```bash
uv run python app/init_langfuse_prompts.py
```

### 4. Run the application

**Terminal 1 — Backend**

```bash
make backend
# or: uv run uvicorn app.main:app --reload --port 8000
```

**Terminal 2 — Frontend (choose one)**

```bash
# Option A: Streamlit
make frontend
# UI: http://localhost:8501

# Option B: React
make react
# UI: http://localhost:5173
```

### Local Docker (API + React)

Run the full stack (backend serving API and React) in Docker:

```bash
docker compose up --build
```

- **URL**: http://localhost:8000 (API + React UI)
- Ensure `.env` contains `OPENAI_API_KEY` and `TAVILY_API_KEY`

---

## How the Agent Loop Works

1. **Goal Input** — User submits a legal research goal via the UI
2. **Planning** — LLM decomposes the goal into 3–6 specific research tasks
3. **Execution** — For each task:
   - Refine the search query using task context + prior research
   - Execute web search via Tavily API
   - Compress raw results into a 2–3 sentence summary (never stored)
   - Reflect on findings and update context notes
   - Mark task as done
4. **Report** — Synthesize a markdown report from accumulated context
5. **Persistence** — Session state saved as JSON; users can resume anytime

**Key insight:** `context_notes` stores only compressed summaries, never raw search text. This keeps the context window flat regardless of task count.

---

## Architecture

```
lexagent/
├── app/
│   ├── agent.py              # LLM wrapper + agent loop
│   ├── main.py               # FastAPI application
│   ├── models.py             # Pydantic models
│   ├── security.py           # Input validation, prompt injection guardrails
│   ├── storage.py            # JSON persistence
│   ├── tools.py              # Tavily search + report writer
│   └── init_langfuse_prompts.py
├── frontend/
│   └── ui.py                 # Streamlit dashboard
├── frontend-react/            # React + Vite + TypeScript
├── docs/                      # Project documentation
├── data/                      # Session JSON (runtime)
├── reports/                   # Markdown reports (runtime)
├── transcript.md             # Example session transcript
├── Makefile                  # Development commands
└── pyproject.toml
```

---

## API Endpoints

| Method | Endpoint | Description |
|--------|----------|-------------|
| GET | `/health` | Health check |
| POST | `/agent/start` | Create session, generate plan |
| GET | `/agent/{id}` | Get session state |
| GET | `/agent/{id}/report` | Get report markdown |
| POST | `/agent/{id}/execute` | Execute next task |
| GET | `/sessions` | List all sessions |
| DELETE | `/agent/{id}` | Delete session |

---

## Development

### Commands

```bash
make help          # List all commands
make test          # Python backend tests
make react-test    # React frontend tests
make test-all      # All tests
make lint          # Ruff linter
make lint-fix      # Auto-fix lint issues
make react-build   # Build React for production
make clean         # Remove sessions and reports
```

### Linting

```bash
uv run ruff check app/ frontend/
uv run ruff check --fix app/ frontend/
```

---

## Documentation

| Document | Description |
|----------|-------------|
| [docs/TESTING.md](docs/TESTING.md) | Testing guide (Python + React) |
| [docs/LANGFUSE_SETUP.md](docs/LANGFUSE_SETUP.md) | Langfuse prompt management |
| [docs/SECURITY.md](docs/SECURITY.md) | Security guardrails |
| [docs/BEST_PRACTICES.md](docs/BEST_PRACTICES.md) | Development best practices |
| [docs/UPDATES.md](docs/UPDATES.md) | Recent improvements |
| [transcript.md](transcript.md) | Example session transcript |
| [frontend-react/README.md](frontend-react/README.md) | React frontend details |

---

## Evaluation Scenarios

1. **GDPR AI Compliance** — Report covers Article 5, 25, 32 with citations
2. **EU AI Act Risk Classification** — High-risk classification, conformity assessment
3. **German Legal Ethics (BRAO)** — §43e BRAO, data protection obligations
4. **German vs EU Data Protection** — BDSG §22, §26 vs GDPR comparison
5. **AI-Generated Legal Documents** — Landmark cases with implications

---

## Trade-offs

- **No RAG** — Tavily returns current legal content; static docs become outdated
- **No agent framework** — Full control over prompts and context
- **JSON storage** — Human-readable, no DB setup
- **Streamlit + React** — Streamlit for rapid iteration; React for production UI

---

## License

MIT
