docs/TESTING.md, before:

# LexAgent Testing Guide

## Quick Tests (No API Keys)

### Python backend

```bash
make test
```

This runs:
- Model validation (Task, AgentState)
- Storage (save, load session)
- Basic imports

### React frontend

```bash
make react-test
```

Runs Vitest suite: types, API config, utils, components, integration.

### All tests

```bash
make test-all
```

---

## Linting

```bash
make lint
# or
uv run ruff check app/ frontend/
```

---

## Full E2E (Requires API Keys)

### 1. Setup

```bash
cp .env.example .env
# Add OPENAI_API_KEY, TAVILY_API_KEY
uv run python app/init_langfuse_prompts.py
```

### 2. Start backend

```bash
make backend
```

Verify: `curl http://localhost:8000/health` → `{"status":"ok"}`

### 3. Start frontend

```bash
# Streamlit
make frontend
# or React
make react
```

### 4. Manual test flow

1. Enter goal: e.g. "Research EU AI Act Article 3 definition of legal AI"
2. Click **Generate Research Plan**
3. Click **Execute Next Step** (or enable Auto-run)
4. Verify tasks complete, report appears
5. Download report, check `reports/` directory

### 5. Verify persistence

```bash
ls data/*.json
ls reports/*.md
```

---

## What Gets Tested

| Area | Python | React |
|------|--------|-------|
| Models | Task, AgentState | Types (Task, AgentState, etc.) |
| Storage | save, load, list | — |
| API | — | Endpoint config, mocks |
| Components | — | NewSession, etc. |
| Integration | — | Session flow, state transitions |

---

## Troubleshooting

| Issue | Solution |
|-------|----------|
| `OPENAI_API_KEY not set` | Add to `.env` |
| `Tavily API key missing` | Add `TAVILY_API_KEY` to `.env` |
| `Prompt not found` | Run `uv run python app/init_langfuse_prompts.py` |
| Port 8000 in use | Use `--port 8001`, update `LEXAGENT_API_URL` |
| React build fails | Run `npm install` in `frontend-react` |

---

## Performance

- First API call (planning): ~3–5 s
- Each task execution: ~15–30 s
- Final report: ~10 s
- Typical 5-task session: ~2–3 min

Commit message:

Pre-submission: code fixes, docs, Docker Streamlit, evaluation
- Agent: validate_search_results() call, Langfuse fallback (get_prompt_safe),
  context_blob length guards, session_id in generate_plan, strategic comments
- Main: crash-recovery comment (in_progress before search)
- Security: docstring for validate_all_variables (per-step validation)
- Docker: COPY frontend/ for Streamlit; docker-compose streamlit service
- README: project background, failure modes, evaluation strategy, AI assistants,
  known limitations, Docker/Streamlit instructions
- New: docs/DEPLOYMENT.md, docs/EVALUATION.md, docs/TEST_AND_DOCKER_EXECUTION_REPORT.md
- Updated: RAILWAY_DEPLOY (Docker/volumes), TESTING, BEST_PRACTICES
- Transcript: 4-task plan, report auto footnote, imperfect Task 2 reflection
- Makefile: fix help indentation

docs/TESTING.md, after:

# LexAgent Testing Guide

## Test philosophy

The agent has **deterministic** parts (JSON parsing, state transitions, storage) and **non-deterministic** parts (LLM responses, Tavily results). Tests focus on the deterministic behavior; the non-deterministic behavior is validated manually or via scenario checklists (see evaluation docs).

## Quick tests (no API keys)

### Python backend

```bash
make test
```

Covers: model validation (Task, AgentState), storage save/load, and that core imports (including agent and security) work.

### React frontend

```bash
make react-test
```

Runs Vitest: types, API config, utils, components, integration.

### All tests

```bash
make test-all
```

Runs both Python and React tests.

---

## Linting

```bash
make lint
# or
uv run ruff check app/ frontend/
```

Fix auto-fixable issues: `make lint-fix`.

---

## Key behaviors to test (when adding tests)

- **State transitions:** `task.status` is set to `in_progress` and the session is saved *before* calling the search. A crash during search leaves the task in a recoverable state, not a phantom "pending".
- **Security:** `validate_goal()`, `validate_context_notes()`, and `validate_search_results()` are used at the boundaries; injection patterns should be unit-tested in `security.py`.
- **Context size:** After execution, `context_notes` should contain only compressed summaries (e.g. no raw Tavily blobs); length expectations can be asserted in tests.
- **Storage round-trip:** Save and load a session; all fields (goal, tasks, context_notes, etc.) should match.

---

## Full E2E (requires API keys)

### 1. Setup

```bash
cp .env.example .env
# Add OPENAI_API_KEY, TAVILY_API_KEY
uv run python app/init_langfuse_prompts.py
```

### 2. Start backend

```bash
make backend
```

Verify: `curl http://localhost:8000/health` → `{"status":"ok"}`

### 3. Start frontend

```bash
# Streamlit
make frontend
# or React
make react
```

### 4. Manual test flow

1. Enter goal: e.g. "Research EU AI Act Article 3 definition of legal AI"
2. Click **Generate Research Plan**
3. Click **Execute Next Step** (or enable Auto-run)
4. Verify tasks complete, report appears
5. Download report, check `reports/` directory

### 5. Verify persistence

```bash
ls data/*.json
ls reports/*.md
```

---

## What Gets Tested

| Area | Python | React |
|------|--------|-------|
| Models | Task, AgentState | Types (Task, AgentState, etc.) |
| Storage | save, load, list | — |
| API | — | Endpoint config, mocks |
| Components | — | NewSession, etc. |
| Integration | — | Session flow, state transitions |

---

## Troubleshooting

| Issue | Solution |
|-------|----------|
| `OPENAI_API_KEY not set` | Add to `.env` |
| `Tavily API key missing` | Add `TAVILY_API_KEY` to `.env` |
| `Prompt not found` | Run `uv run python app/init_langfuse_prompts.py` |
| Port 8000 in use | Use `--port 8001`, update `LEXAGENT_API_URL` |
| React build fails | Run `npm install` in `frontend-react` |

---

## Performance

- First API call (planning): ~3–5 s
- Each task execution: ~15–30 s
- Final report: ~10 s
- Typical 5-task session: ~2–3 min
